End of cycle 2021 (#401)
DFE-Digital/bat-design-history: app/posts/apply-for-teacher-training/2021-07-23-end-of-cycle-2021.md

### 21 September 2021 at 6pm

Candidates applying again in the 2020 to 2021 recruitment cycle can no longer submit an application for courses starting in the 2021 to 2022 academic year.

### 5 October 2021 at 9am

Candidates can find courses starting in the 2022 to 2023 academic year ("Find reopens").

### 12 October 2021 at 9am

Candidates can submit an application for courses starting in the 2022 to 2023 academic year ("Apply reopens").

## Candidates are informed about their deadline to apply

### Candidates applying for the fist time

{% from "figure/macro.njk" import appFigure with context %}
{{ appFigure({
  image: {
    file: "candidate-applying-first-time-starts-application-before-deadline.png"
  },
  caption: "Deadline banners start to show approximately one month before the deadline to apply."  
}) }}

{% from "figure/macro.njk" import appFigure with context %}
{{ appFigure({
  image: {
    file: "candidate-applying-for-the-first-time-gets-nudge-with-deadline.png"
  },
  caption: "Nudge emails are sent approximately 2 months and then one month before the deadline to apply."   

> }) }}

Reviewer: Wondering if it makes sense to use the email preview component, rather than screenshots for the emails on this page.

### Candidates applying again

{% from "figure/macro.njk" import appFigure with context %}
{{ appFigure({
  image: {
    file: "candidate-applying-again-banner-with-deadline.png"
  },
  caption: "Deadline banners start to show approximately one month before the deadline to apply again."
}) }}

{% from "figure/macro.njk" import appFigure with context %}
{{ appFigure({
  image: {
    file: "candidate-applying-again-gets-nudge-with-deadline.png"
  },
  caption: "Nudge emails are sent approximately 2 months and then one month before the deadline to apply again."
}) }}

## If a candidate does not submit by their deadline

### They need to 'carry over' their application to continue working on it

{% from "figure/macro.njk" import appFigure with context %}
{{ appFigure({
  image: {
    file: "continue-application-unsubmitted.png"
  },
  caption: "An interstitial page is shown on sign in (from 6pm on 7 September 2021 for candidates applying for the first time and 6pm on 21 September 2021 for candidates applying again). Clicking continue carries over their application to the next available cycle."
}) }}

> <div class="govuk-inset-text">
>   'Carrying over' is a term we use internally to describe copying an application from one cycle to the next, but we do not use this terminology with candidates.
> </div>

Reviewer: We can use the nunchucks component here… which is actually more verbose 🤦 

```suggestion
{% from "govuk/components/inset-text/macro.njk" import govukInsetText %}
{{ govukInsetText({
  text: "‘Carrying over’ is a term we use internally to describe copying an application from one cycle to the next, but we do not use this terminology with candidates."
}) }}
```

## Candidates who applied in time but did not get a place

### If there's still time to apply in the same recruitment cycle

{% from "figure/macro.njk" import appFigure with context %}
{{ appFigure({
  image: {
    file: "normal-email-apply-again.png"
  },
  caption: "Candidates get the usual 'apply again' email inviting them to apply again in the same recruitment cycle."
}) }}

{% from "figure/macro.njk" import appFigure with context %}
{{ appFigure({
  image: {
    file: "application-unsuccessful-still-time-to-apply.png"
  },
  caption: "If they log in before the deadline to apply again, they'll see the usual 'apply again' message but with the addition of a deadline banner. They can apply again in the normal way, up until the deadline to apply again."
}) }}

### If it's too late to apply in the same recruitment cycle, they need to 'carry over' their application

{% from "figure/macro.njk" import appFigure with context %}
{{ appFigure({
  image: {
    file: "application-unsuccessful-no-longer-possible-apply-again.png"
  },

>   caption: "As soon as the deadline to apply again has passed, the message in the 'apply again' inset text changes - letting the candidate know they can apply for the next cycle. Clicking 'apply again' carries over their application."

Reviewer: The hill I’m prepared to die on…

```suggestion
  caption: "As soon as the deadline to apply again has passed, the message in the 'apply again' inset text changes – letting the candidate know they can apply for the next cycle. Clicking 'apply again' carries over their application."
```

Author: @paulrobertlloyd did u replace the hyphen with an en rule or something?

}) }}  

[If the candidate carries their application over before Apply reopens, they cannot submit](/apply-for-teacher-training/end-of-cycle-2021/#if-they-carry-over-before-apply-reopens%2C-they-cannot-submit) - as above.

[If the candidate carries their application over before Find reopens, they cannot find courses](/apply-for-teacher-training/end-of-cycle-2021/#if-they-carry-over-before-find-reopens%2C-they-cannot-find-courses) - as above.

## Candidates who create an account after the deadline to apply for the first time

[If the candidate creates an account before Apply reopens, they cannot submit](/apply-for-teacher-training/end-of-cycle-2021/#if-they-carry-over-before-apply-reopens%2C-they-cannot-submit) - as above.

[If the candidate creates an account before Find reopens, they cannot find courses](/apply-for-teacher-training/end-of-cycle-2021/#if-they-carry-over-before-find-reopens%2C-they-cannot-find-courses) - as above.

## Timeframe to carry over an application

We have not set an end point for carrying over an application.

> This means that the [carry over message when a candidate's application does not lead to a place](/apply-for-teacher-training/end-of-cycle-2021/#if-it%E2%80%99s-too-late-to-apply-in-the-same-recruitment-cycle%2C-they-need-to-%E2%80%98carry-over%E2%80%99-their-application) and the [unsubmitted carry over message](/apply-for-teacher-training/end-of-cycle-2021/#they-need-to-%E2%80%98carry-over%E2%80%99-their-application-to-continue-working-on-it) continue to show indefinitely until the candidate actions it.

Reviewer: > continue to show indefinitely until the candidate actions it.

A small and possibly irrelevant detail, but not sure it’s indefinitely. Is there not a point when we purge unsubmitted applications (after one complete cycle without activity on an application)?

Author: @paulrobertlloyd so I say this later: 'We’re assessing whether we should set an end point.' - cos I thought we were figuring this out atm?

Wherever we refer to applying for courses starting in a particular year, such as in carry over messages or banners, it should always reflect the year the candidate is eligible to start a course in.

{% from "figure/macro.njk" import appFigure with context %}
{{ appFigure({
  image: {
    file: "carry-over-year-later.png"
  },
  caption: "Example: if a candidate started an application when it was possible to get on a course starting in the 2021 to 2022 academic year, but does not submit in time and does not sign back in until July 2023."
}) }}  

{% from "figure/macro.njk" import appFigure with context %}
{{ appFigure({
  image: {
    file: "application-unsuccessful-no-longer-possible-apply-again-year-later.png"
  },
  caption: "Example: if a candidate submitted an application when it was possible to get on a course starting in the 2021 to 2022 academic year, but does get a place in time and does not sign back in until July 2023."
}) }}  

> We're assessing whether we should set an end point.

Reviewer: Ahhh.

Author: ohhhh.... hahah

Author: i'll bring that sentence further up so it's clearer haha

## Letting candidates know that courses are open

Anyone who started or submitted an application for courses starting in the 2021 to 2022 academic year without securing a place gets an email letting them know when courses are open.

```html
<!-- if candidate name provided -->
Dear [candidate name]
<!-- endif -->

<!-- if they started an application in the previous cycle but did not submit by their deadline -->
# Applications are open - submit your teacher training application

Complete your application to get on a course starting in the [year range] academic year:

[link to sign in]
<!-- endif -->

<!-- if they submitted an application in the previous cycle but did not get a place in time  -->
# Applications are open - apply for teacher training again

You could get on a course starting in the [year range] academic year.

Make any changes to your previous application and apply again:

[link to sign in]
<!-- endif -->

# Get help to complete your application

Talk to a teacher training adviser to get help writing a strong application:

https://adviser-getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/

> ```

Reviewer: I wonder if we can use the Notify email preview style for this logic? (See [this example](https://bat-design-history.netlify.app/apply-for-teacher-training/end-of-cycle-and-carry-over/#for-candidates-who-get-a-rejection-after-18-september)… but maybe that makes this more complicated and difficult to understand?)

Reviewer: Or… maybe we show 3 separate emails, with the logic in the copy instead?

Author: Good idea. I'll come back to this another time. Just want to get it recorded officially for now.
